So at this point, you've actually gathered
enough data to produce one of the goal visualizations,
to scatterplot with quadrants with audience score
on the horizontal axis and critics score in the vertical axis.
Since this lesson is on gathering data,
let's get past the assessing and cleaning steps of the data wrangling process,
which includes joining our two dataframes,
and let's flashforward to the final product, the visualization.
So here's what the data frame looks like with
your newly gathered audience score and number of audience ratings.
You can use matplotlib to create a simple visualization like this one,
a pretty basic scatterplot,
but this is where something interactive like Tableau really shines.
And here's what it looks like in Tableau. Pretty amazing.
So, you've got audience score on the horizontal axis ranging from 70% to 100%,
critics score in the vertical axis ranging from 91% to 100%,
well technically, 101, but that's just for visual purposes.
Then you've got these reference lines.
The vertical one being the median of audience score, which is 90%,
and the horizontal reference line is the median of critics score, 98%.
In the top right corner of the screen,
we've even got number of audience ratings and number
of critic ratings represented visually, too.
Lighter shades of blue mean small number of
audience ratings and darker shades of blue means a larger number.
And smaller circles mean a smaller number of critic ratings
and larger circles mean a larger number of critic ratings.
And okay, so in the top right corner of the screen,
we've got universally loved movies.
High audience scores, high critics scores.
One of them being The Godfather, 1972,
which if we hover over this dot,
we can see the 99% critics score and the 98% audience score.
And in the bottom right corner,
we've got critically underrated movies.
Audience scores above the median audience score for this top 100 list
and critics scores below the median critics score for this top 100 list.
One movie being The Dark Knight,
2008, audience score and critics score of 94%.
And in the top left, we have critically overrated movies.
Audiences didn't like these movies as much as critics did, basically.
Compared to the median audience and critic rating,
the most notable point, 1940's, Pinocchio.
A 100% critics score over 45 reviews but only a 72% audience score.
And then in the bottom left quadrant,
we've got movies that didn't have
particularly high critic or audience scores in reference to the movies on this list.
One notable one, Lala Land, 2016,
an audience score of 82% and a critics score of 92%,
both well below the median scores for each.
And here's E.T., right on the median critics score line,
a 98% critics score and there's that low 72% audience score.
So, this Best of Rotten Tomatoes critic versus audience score visualization
required gathering data from two different sources: Accessing files on hand,
and scraping data from web pages and that data was in two different formats,
a flat file, or a TSV file specifically,
and HTML. Great job.